The Tale of the Cursed Operating Systems Textbook
@kiranb

Bhattaram

Each Chapter I read marks a new bug in the systems I work on.  These problems are massive and inescapables

I've been using Unix for most of my life.  But only developed a concept of Operating System inner-workings recently.

I wanted to be Lex Murphy!

I firmly believe that knowing these internals will make me a better programmer!  Abstracting things away

Grimoire/Spellbook about Magic (Engineering!) ... some spells might cause harm, but that's ok cuz you learn

Ch. 1 
    Inside the Kernel
    We were having intermittenet issues with our DNS killer.

    Linux OOM killer is it kills memory when all else fails.  Kernel was using far too much memory, and so the OS was killing apps to compensate.

    /proc
    Presudoefile system about sys. info
        System Utils are usually reading from files in this directory
    /proc/slabtop
    There was a bug:
        Fork it -> Kill off previous -> But Garbage Collection wasn't happening
        Graceful Reloads were causing the issue.  Full Reloads solved this.


Ch. 2 
    Netowrking
    fiNAGLEing

    Publishing messages to daemon on localhost, but it was taking 40ms per message.  This was insane!!

    POST requests sent in 2 packets Headers + Body
    NAGLES algorithm makes sure full packets get sent
        This prevents wasting resources on multiple small packets by combining these
        Linux by default waits 40 ms.
    The server we were using had delayed ACKs on.

    Passive Aggressive waiting on both sides :p


Ch. 3 
    Oints

    We store some data in Mangos -> Take Snapshot -> Kill and restore for testing purposes

    Got Cryptic MangoDB message -> The first element was oints ... meaning there was some Data corruption in the DB

    Kernel write buffers flush out to disk asynchronously
        We were doing the Fsync, but didn't lock the replica against more writes.
        This meant the DB had half written data and Barged


Ch. 4
    Concurrency - I've been told not to read this.  Esp not while on the plane!!

    Instead I read about Hard Drives, Bit Processing, Scheduling, etc!!
