Values of Beta may give rise to dom!
Mark Allen
@bytemeorg


Values of Beta may give rise to dom! -> One of the most obscure Error Messages ever found in an OS

Game played on a GE635 -> Used for design of Multix
Ken Thompson and Dennis Richie -> Created Unix in 1969
    Multix was pulled out by Bell Labs
KT -> Berkeley
DR -> MIT
worked w/ General Electric (who made computers in 1960s)
Was going to be a Massive Concurrent User System (25 users) -> needed to scale up to phone switching network.
    With transistors and multi-programming stuff, this seemed achievable.

They needed to find a PDP-7 ... your TI graphic calculators were more powerful
KT Liked it -> nobody was using it and it had a tube display

Game: Space Travel
    You could land on objects that had gravity
    Written in Assembly (b/c 4k of memory)

PDP-11 -> 256k of memory
    $100,000 ($500,000 today)
    GE had no interest in this cost

    They used Runoff as a lever to get this money from management
        Still exists as Groff in OS X today
        You can use GROFF on any of the original Repo

        Written for CTSS

        Joe Asana -> photo typesetter.
            Translated ROFF into Asana

        Brian Kernigan rewrote it in C and added cool typesetting features

        EQN -> pagackage for typesetting and calculations
        Linda Cheery and BK collaborated together

        "Use Unix as platform to typeset Patent Programs"


    One day KT came into lab and there was all this weird stuff on the phototytpesetter
    "Beeta instead of Beta"
    They were working with the guy who put | into Linux
    Voice Simulator that simulated War Games.
        This phrase was funny
        Ed-> line-editor great grandparents of vi/vim
        Indicated Syntax Error with "!"
        So translator mispronounced this

        They put it in an the next version of the program!!


Other favorite: "Move to move file that is itself wil output ????"

Famous comment from Lyons Commentary: "You are not expected to understand this."
    System 6 Kernel is a 40k kernel!

    "The comment which begins here is not encouraging" -> Tells you to check out xswap to fix this


The Ethos of Unix
1.  Do 1 thing do it well
2.  Tool composition
3.  Text is a universal interace
4.  Documentation

Unix Man Pages have a list of bugs

Aesthetics of Unix:
1.  Simplicity
2.  Elegance
3.  Openness


*Dennis Ritchie quote about philosophy of OSS*