Wilkie - Preserving Digital Art and Games for 100 Years
@Wilkieii


SLides - Running in an Old Game
    ANSI Art

Game "Slides"

Get paid for archiving research and code so that people can run it 10 yrs. later.

This is actually hard to archive
    Hard to evaluate it
    Hard to convince people it's reliable
    Scientists don't want to bother b/c they want to publish results quickly
        Contrary to Art - Preserving Art is important

When I come back home, I can't even compile code I've written before I left

All code is some form of art/expression
    Even writing scripts for job - there is individuality, and part of you.

I use video games to show that this is really important

I became a fan of interactive art as a kid, and I'd download it and have pictures in front of me
    ZZT - game itself is pretty unspectacular
        Play as this disembodied Head and make sure you don't die
        Similar to Space Invaders, but some more mechanics

        Is extremely popular


How would we archive ZZT?
    When we archive it, we have to preserve that interactivity.

    Normal Archive Methods (very naive):
        Virtualization Stacks
        Emulators

        Problems
            What do we do when something new comes along and nobody cares about KVM (Platform that runs the VM) anymore
            What if this image only works on a certain version of KVM/Computer

        Is it enough just to archive the game?
            If we just archive Scratch or ZZT, is that enough?

            No - ZZT is not fun on its own.
                The fun part is that people have used the level producer to produce thousands upon thousands of their own worlds
                So we'd be missing the true potential of ZZT


            Made a general Tool that can build VMs on the fly, based on the archived programs requirements

                ZZT runs in DOS
                    We don't make a VM for DOS.  We just leave a note for the future
                    DOSBOX - Same deal

                Can make a Virtual Machine Image or Docker Container
                    Problem
                        Docker could bite the dust
                    Solution
                        We'd have to adjust the back-end of the tool to rely on another platform then        

                    Cool thing is you can create a specific ZZT archive
                        Adventures of Link II (or "Adventures of COpyright Infringement")

                    VM contains:
                        ZZT World
                        ZZT
                        Runs in Browser
                        VNC Javascript Client
                        NEXT Server
                        Window Manager
                        DOSBOX

                    Maybe 100 years from now, you'll be able to run these games, or my slides, etc.


When you're building systems - creation tools, art tools, mods
    Think about how you're hurting, hindering or helping people who make archive tools, so we can archive this stuff

If anyone has any funding that isn't DoD and wants to help fund this, that would be appreciated!!